## Real time plotting using EZO PRS/HUM and Arduino Uno

# Overview
This script reads data from two txt files simultaneously, one dedicated to pressure and the other to the environment (temperature, relative humidity, and dew point). This data comes from an EZO PRS and EZO HUM which are connected to separate arduino uno's. The data is read from the sensors using the Arduino IDE software which we can use to send commands to the sensors. Then a software, CoolTerm, is used to take this data and continously update it into a txt file. 
The script is able to read the data from the txt file by extrapolating the timestamp and measurements. Then it assigns those values as x and y and uses matplotlib to plot the live data on four different graphs. 

# Background
We are using the EZO PRS and EZO HUM from Atlas Scientific, each of those are connected to an Arduino Uno. It is connected as shown in data sheets https://files.atlas-scientific.com/Arduino-Uno-PRS-sample-code.pdf and https://files.atlas-scientific.com/Arduino-Uno-HUM-sample-code.pdf. Those data sheets also provide the sample code that was run on the Arduino IDE software. A slight change was added to add timestamps in milliseconds which can be done by following a tutorial at https://docs.arduino.cc/language-reference/en/functions/time/millis/. The timestamps describe how many milliseconds has passed since you ran the script. We also changed the way the data was being printed. You can find the exact script we used in the files "ModifiedArduinoScript_Environment" and "ModifiedArduinoScript_Pressure" this lets us format the output data in a way our main code can read it. We were getting an error message that said "Cannot open port, permission denied"; to fix this open your terminal and enter "sudo chmod a+rw /dev/ttyACM0" you may have to change the end of the command for your specific port. Once you enter your password you should be able to run the script on IDE.  

Download CoolTerm and run it using this tutorial https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j1x54ixEFak&t=813s. You should be able to connect to one of the sensors. Once you do click connection-> options -> file capture, it is important to make sure that you have "leave file open while capturing data" not checked. Once that is unchecked, go to connection -> file capture -> start. It will prompt you to name your txt file and name it, make sure this data file is being saved to your downloads so the script can access it. 

# Calibration
To calibrate the EZO HUM, because all of the values are dependent on temperature you only need to calibrate temperature. You can follow what is stated in the EZO HUM datasheet on page 21 https://files.atlas-scientific.com/EZO-HUM-P-S-Datasheet.pdf. For the EZO PRS you can find this on page 22 of the data sheet https://files.atlas-scientific.com/EZO-PRS-Datasheet.pdf.

# How to run it
Once you have your txt files in your downloads, make sure the file sizes are increasing. In your terminal go into your downloads, you can do this using the command "cd ~/Downloads". Then create a virtual environment, this allows us to run matplotlib. You can create a virtual environment by following this tutorial at https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/python/environments. Once created make sure it is activated. At the beginning of the script it reads from two txt files, make sure you change the names to match your txt files. Run the script using the command "python3 realtimeplotting.py", change the second part to whatever your file is named. 
